Nothing beats a proper,
traditional Sunday roast.
I'm Rejina, I'm a busy
mum and a food lover.
And in this video I'm
gonna take you through
everything you need to know
for the perfect roast beef.
So first up is the all important
issue of hygiene.
You probably know this already
but always wash your hands
before and after handling raw meat
because you don't want to
spread harmful bacteria.
As beef is a red meat,
it doesn't have to be cooked
all the way through.
In fact, a lot of people
quite like their beef rare.
Just take it out of the fridge half
an hour before you want to roast
to bring it up to room temperature
and that way it should
cook nice and evenly.
You should also, at this point,
pre-heat your oven to 240 C,
which is gas mark 9.
There are loads of different
variations on roast beef,
but today, we're gonna be keeping it
simple with this delicious seasoning.
A tablespoon of oil, a couple
of teaspoons of mustard powder,
a teaspoon of salt and pepper
and then just mix
up to a loose paste.
It doesn't look like much
but this is quite intense.
Just liberally smear
that all over the meat.
As a guide, I allow
15 minutes per 450 grams,
plus an extra 20
minutes at the end.
And this 2 kilo joint should take
about just under an hour and a half.
You'll have that lovely
well done meat on the outside
and you'll have that gorgeous,
pink rare meat
in the very, very centre.
Don't forget to keep basting
throughout to keep
your meat nice and moist.
There's some really gorgeous
juices in the pan.
To give it a lovely,
brown, flavoursome crust,
I cook it for the first
half an hour at 240 C,
gas mark 9 and then
turn it down to 200 C
to ensure that everything cooks
evenly and to minimise shrinkage.
So when the beef is
done to your liking,
remove it from the oven carefully.
It will be very hot.
So now I'm gonna rest the meat
for about 20 minutes or so
under a tent of foil.
And what that will do is it
will just allow the meat to relax
and the juices will come out
and you can make
your delicious gravy.
At this point, you can
skim off any excess fat.
I've about 450 mils
of beef stock here.
Keep stirring and then add
in about a tablespoon of flour
just to thicken it
to the consistency that you like.
Really stir that well,
otherwise you'll get lumps
and no one likes lumpy gravy.
So this should take
about 20 minutes,
which is just the
right amount of time
for your meat to rest
into tender perfection.
And it should be ready
to go and carve now.
So you want to start
carving some nice,
thick slices starting at
the wide end of the meat,
about a centimetre wide
and you want your knife
at a slight angle, which will help
you guide your way along the beef.
It's quite a nice idea
just to save a few slices
to cut just as you're serving
and it should keep it warm as well.
And it's lovely and tender,
having had a good, long rest.
You can really feel how easily that
knife is gliding through the meat.
Serve this simply
with some horseradish sauce
and some Yorkshire puddings.
Don't forget to wrap any
leftovers tightly in some foil
and it should keep in the fridge
for a couple of days.
So thank you all for
watching and get cooking.